foreign
[Music]
to me self-awareness is is life there's
no difference you know people think
about businesses
something that's separate from life you
know I do that in business or it's just
business or and to me business is far
more of an art form
and how you use it is far more important
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
foreign
if you've been listening for a while
you've heard Joe and I refer to the
workshops and online courses that this
podcast comes from what's the deal with
all of this why do we want you to join
our mailing list what's Our intention
are we trying to suck you into something
and what's this going to cost you today
I'd like to bring some transparency into
what exactly is going on with all this
view business
Joe how did you get into the coaching
business in the first place uh
by accident I found myself when Tara and
I had a
um decided to have a kid and the kid was
on the way I realized that I had to stop
sitting in a room meditating all the
time and make a little money and
I went into venture capital and one of
the realizations I had early on was that
if I
didn't bring my self-awareness practice
if if business wasn't a way
for me to continue to develop and
understand myself that I would never
succeed at business
and
then as I started to invest I realized
the mentality of the people that I
invested in were the biggest was the
biggest leverage for successful
Investments
and I started sharing some of the
knowledge that I had with them that was
successful in many cases and then they
started telling me that other people
needed me
and I didn't have the time so I did a
course and then it just kind of happened
when people the line got long and at
some point I decided that this was far
more of my calling than investing and I
was better at it frankly with a lot of
you know self-development like programs
there's this way that self-development
is turns out to be a tool for somebody
to make a bunch of money and like
inflate their ego what makes what you're
doing different from that
wow I would love to say that I'm
different from that but I'm sure that
that's at play at the same time meaning
I mean there's no way that you can
completely annihilate an ego I think if
you think you've completely annihilated
it that is ego in itself so
so I'm sure my egos at play and uh
making money I I enjoy making money I
definitely like it but neither of them
are the priority
in my world and so
creating the business is far more about
an enjoyment process for me you know
maybe two or three years ago I would
have said I really want to bring this
out to people because it creates
happiness and I want to change the world
and that that's really not alive in me
anymore
it's far more enliven me it's just this
is something I really enjoy I I get off
on I like
I like watching people
have life-changing experiences I like
being a part of that
I like building something Beyond me I I
like
I'm seeing the value through the success
of a business so it's just it's really a
matter of enjoyment for me so you
described your journey as like you it
started out being interested in
self-awareness and meditation and you
had a baby and realized you needed some
money so you started to get into
business into VC and
you wanted of course to bring your
self-awareness practice with you and
make that part of part of what you were
doing in business
and then it became the business itself
how did you transition from you know
being a venture capitalist and you know
focusing on the quality of awareness of
the people that you invested in into
making view a business on its own I was
really just following the demand I was
just following people's requests for the
most part I I have a vision for sure
but it's incredibly informed by what
people have asked for and what they want
I feel like it's the same when you're
coaching somebody you start with where
they are
you don't tell them what you think their
agenda should be you follow their agenda
I think business is the same way you
don't ask people to be different you
don't give them an agenda you find out
what their agenda is and if it if you
can serve that
if you can be of service to that and it
is aligned internally then by all means
go ahead and that's what happened here
it was just the best way I could be of
service that was inspiring and enjoyable
for me can you tell me more about what
you're working on now like inside and
outside of the view courses and what
what does that look like for you yeah
too much I think I'm working on too much
we have the podcast going we have the
view
um course going we have the AOA course
going I have a group of 12 Executives I
work with every year as a coach and then
we have an occasional in-person Workshop
particularly for those Executives but
sometimes for others
and then there's the creation of content
which is what we're doing now
just generally
um spreading the word so that people if
it's right for people they can find it
that's the work yeah when we when we
first met Vue was only available through
these like small in-person workshops
that you just mentioned what's what's so
important to you about in-person work
and what made you start exploring in
online format yeah I was ignorant I
think the in-person work was I had a
conception a limiting thought that it
could only be done in person and then
coronavirus hit
and people came to me and said hey and
we need this and this and this and we
need it online and I thought no no no no
no and
luckily I didn't need the money and
eventually I was I was sitting in my hot
tub one day and I have this hot tub that
goes way too hot and I got some
engineered and mess with it and so I'm
you know boiling my brain and I had this
Epiphany that the way that I learned a
lot of this stuff is very different than
the way I teach it and so
I thought oh wow this is I could
potentially
teach it online the way that I learned
it and then that started the exploration
and only to find out that there are ways
that when it's done online it's more
powerful it's stronger and there's some
ways in which it's weaker that's
stronger because it's like more
persistent it
you have more time with it you don't get
the workshop High
it becomes a integrative part of life
there are some experiences that can
happen in person that are bigger than
the experiences that happen online
overall on average
there's some exercises you can only do
online
so and something that you can only do in
person and so in that Discovery and just
trying to make it better and iterate
iterate iterate which is how I do it I I
never try for Perfection I just keep on
improving
and it just turned out that people
really dug them we got great NPS scores
and
people really liked it and then I got
really motivated because I realized it
made me less involved which is really a
like a critical component for me in
doing any of the work is that I want to
become you know like if if someone's
teaching you math you don't want them to
have to be there every time you're doing
math that would be a pretty shitty
teacher and so I saw that the online
version needed less of me and that
became really exciting for me and said
then I got more and more inspired by the
online work what are you trying to
accomplish by growing view as a business
it is really just a matter of following
my enjoyment I mean I think there's some
Freedom that I have in the fact that I'm
not really trying to accomplish anything
and it sounds kind of counter-intuitive
like you have to have business goals and
I do and you know you have to have a
vision and I do but at the end of the
day
I'm really good with things not working
because I don't I'm not attached to tied
to my value isn't created from uh the
business outcomes
and you know the vision is wouldn't it
be cool for a whole bunch of people to
be able to communicate this way and to
have breakthroughs and to have happier
lives and to enjoy themselves more enjoy
each other more
have businesses to be more successful
particularly businesses where people are
open to self-exploration like wouldn't
that be awesome
and it would be it's it's like it's a
super cool thing but it's that's more of
like the symptom the the core is my own
enjoyment the core is
what turns me on what it sounds like
that's a little bit hedonistic almost
but it's not quite that way in the fact
that
what I've learned over time is that
when I'm following the deeper call
there's more enjoyment in my life so
when I'm it's almost it's not almost it
is an act of surrender
so it's like I'm surrendering to the
call just like a a baby surrenders to a
cry
like there's a movement that's happening
my enjoyment is a way for me to directly
get in touch with that call that thing
that's pulling me the gravity of
my internal exploration the gravity of
divinity or
Oneness whatever you want to call that
thing God and my enjoyment is the way
that I get to gauge How Deeply I'm
surrendering I love that you're uh
the way you described the vision was a
series of run-on questions
[Laughter]
I didn't even notice
that totally makes sense
yeah so yeah you mentioned that you know
you're doing this for your enjoyment and
you do have business goals and a vision
what are some of the business goals like
what's the revenue model how does this
work the first question that that helps
me answer the second question is
what do I want the money for what what
is the money about and so for me money
is just another tool in self-exploration
that's its highest purpose
and and money is also as a secondary
purpose a means of supporting people's
energy and there's a there's a definite
need for like a flow of money that money
stagnant is um is a destructive force in
my conception of the world
so
the goals around money in particular are
all about making sure that the people
who I work with are well paid
um that they have good opportunities
that we get to do the stuff that we
enjoy
and then the money for towards the
customer the main purpose is does it
make the spirit does it support the
spiritual journey or does it not and one
of the things that I think is really
important is that you create us a slate
of products that are accessible
for anybody's Journey so there's free
content for people who have aren't able
to afford and then other content for
people who can't afford and the reason
that that's important is because
that exchange of energy is really
important meaning like I was in
Nicaragua and there was this group of
people who were
there to deliver food and clothing to
these folks in Nicaragua and I was
sitting talking to them and I was like
you know I feel like it's a bit
destructive what you're doing
they were of course taken aback and I
said you know to me if you just give
them stuff
it teaches them uh that they that they
can't take care of themselves on some
level
and I far more believe in an exchange
and they're like well these guys have
nothing to give and I said you know sure
they do they
for instance there was a sea turtle
shortage going on because they've been
all been killed I'm like you know the
community could do it see Turtles rescue
or they could
help with the restoration projects for
this sea tortoises sea turtles in
exchange for it there's lots of ways and
I think it's really important
it's um a quote that was in a book
called The Soul of money that sticks
with me and it was an indigenous tribe
and they said if you're here to help me
no thank you
if you're here to work together for our
mutual Freedom let's get to work
and I think that the monetary exchange
towards the customer needs to be that
and it needs to be
something that's felt
so
if you're dealing with somebody who's a
billionaire to say okay I'll do all this
work for you for 200 isn't an exchange
of energy in the same way that it would
be
or someone who is working at ten dollars
an hour so it's really important that
there's some way that that energy
exchange can happen I mean it's been a
common kind of challenge I guess that
like really good coaching
has been disproportionately available to
Executives or high paid Tech workers or
something and meanwhile a lot of people
who are really struggling and could use
a lot of this work the most simply can't
afford to pay for workshops but now that
you're creating like online self-paced
courses that don't require your time to
administer what makes you run those as a
business when you could give give them
out for free yeah that's a question that
I've I've asked myself a lot you know
when we were looking at the business
model do we want to do this for free
and the answer was that we didn't think
that we would get as much completion and
buy-in if it was free and that said I do
give it away for free often if the
circumstances are right if the approach
is right
but just generally the thought process
is what's the way that the work does the
best work inside of you and that's how I
think about everything I think about it
like when we Market something for
instance I think about
not how do we get someone to buy a
course I think about how does the
marketing become the beginning of the
course how does it become the beginning
of self-exploration
so everything that I'm doing is serving
the self-exploration everything from the
way that I bill to how we build the
courses to
the teamwork that goes into building the
courses to how we price it it's our best
guess and I'm sure we're wrong but it's
our best guess at how we can best serve
the people how to get them through the
course how to make it meaningful enough
for them to Value it so that they give
it the right love and attention yeah
that's that seems like a really
difficult problem because
you have some people for whom 300 bucks
is like a throwaway and then other
people for whom 300 bucks is like the
majority of a rent payment
or their entire rent payment and
you know it could be argued that both
need it equally or could use it could
use this work equally but it just have
completely different context for money
yeah it is it's a really difficult thing
and
and hopefully we'll provide stuff the
other part of the model is that the
higher end stuff pays for the lower end
stuff right so the work that I do in
companies where there's a higher dollar
per hour can pay for lower price courses
so our own sustainability is definitely
a part of this and like I said it's to
make sure that everybody in the
organization or anybody at contract with
has the ability to thrive in their own
life because if we're creating something
from a poverty mentality then we're
going to be we're going to be projecting
that poverty mentality into our
teachings and so that I think that's not
going to work but the idea for sure and
a lot of the goals that I have are about
making it more and more available at
different price points and different
levels of commitment and
I don't have a perfect solution by any
stretch and if anybody has one please
let us know my experience of doing stuff
completely for free has not been
as successful as far as
um
serving the serving the population that
I want to serve the people who are
interested it just doesn't seem to work
as well
and yet we still pull that lever
sometimes giving away recently gave away
the course to an organization that is
Sir you know doesn't have the money but
is doing great work in the world and
and I assume we'll continue to do that
you were talking about like
sustainability and there's there are a
lot of examples of organizations that
are you know like businesses built
around some kind of work like this that
turns self-inquiry into a business at
scale only to have things go south or
blow up for a number number of reasons
related to their like requirements for
sustainability you know like training
facilitators and then you know kind of
gatekeeping those facilitators and
trying to keep a cut and then creating
paths that become somewhat manipulative
and create dependence
people end up becoming financially
dependent on a community or in a on a
particular organization and feeling
trapped
so like how can you maximize a positive
impact of this work and scale it without
it becoming corrupted by the needs of a
scaling business yeah so I did an
experiment on this before I failed
miserably on it this one seems to be far
more successful and I think to some
degree I was making that mistake
and I think it's the gift of the online
component that's really showed me to
some degree the mentality mess up so
my perspective I thought I was far more
necessary than I was the less necessary
that I view myself to be in the work or
that I view the organization to be or
that you know that our existence alone
isn't necessary for the development of
humanity
that we're just here to serve it this
kind of development of humanity
um
the more the less we have a risk of
becoming one of those organizations so I
think that the need to be special or the
need to be needed
or the need to save any of those kind of
needs are what create those
organizations the inner work is really
the most important thing and that that
clarifies the way
that the art of this business is
expressed and so everything that I do is
all about pointing people back to
themselves
and the less involved I can be the less
involved the organization can be the
better so that we don't create an
organization where people need us what's
your approach to intellectual property
you could say that the the the way of
being that view points to is not new and
you didn't invent it and people have
been discovering it through many
different traditions
and how do you consider View
to be in some sense like you're a baby
and something that you are stewarding
and responsible for and to what sense is
it just kind of out there for people to
discover this is one of the hardest
questions that I wrestle with
I'm glad you brought it up because it's
um a place where I I could still use
some clarity
yeah so
uh on one level there's a part of me
that wants everything that I do to be
completely open source and anybody could
use it for anything
on another level I've seen that be
really dangerous and destructive you
know these tools modified slightly can
be used for for nefarious purposes or at
least unconscious purposes and
so there's this fear that that will
happen and and I've seen it happen
and not even through people having bad
intentions it's just it's often times
someone's like oh I can use this tool to
help a whole bunch of people
and they haven't looked at their own
shadow and so their Shadow just kind of
you know just completely takes over the
work and I've seen that happen quite a
few times and so
the way that I I the iteration that I'm
on now is that you ask permission to use
any of the tools that are um specific to
us if you're going to go use them and
then
we make sure that it feels right to us
and that you have the right support to
do to use those tools
um I don't know if that's going to be
scalable and
but that's what we do in our contracts
with people who are taking the courses
is basically you can't go and use this
and I remember like one of the first
talks I gave and I was giving people all
these tools that I had developed and
that were a Synergy of other tools you
know there's certain things about 80 of
what we do I don't know anybody else who
does them and then 20 of what we do are
taken from traditions and from
Neuroscience or something that's like
two three thousand years old from you
know esoteric texts that I read and
everything in between and
but the stuff that's novel
it came from my Consciousness and so to
some degree there is a
I feel safe in the using of those tools
and what I've noticed is when people use
those tools but their Consciousness
didn't create it
that that it can become more dangerous
because they don't fully have an
understanding of the tool and more
importantly
I created these tools from my
Consciousness and I want other people to
create tools from theirs like and so
again I want to be less involved and so
as people create their own stuff from
their Consciousness those are right
tools for where they are and where the
people near them are
so it's just incredibly useful to have
more of those tools out there
and rather than making them dependent on
my tools and so that's another reason
that we basically have come up with a
conclusion that
you ask for permission to use the tools
one thing that I've heard some people
have sort of objections when they first
encounter this work usually through
somebody else is that it seems selfish
and there's like some shades of that in
this conversation where you're talking
about you know I'm doing this for my
enjoyment and yeah you know it needs to
be an energetic exchange and you hear a
lot of people talk about you know
energetic exchange and like kind of
using that word to disown that they're
actually charging for something and that
they want money
yeah I want your money no doubt about it
I I like making money there's there's no
doubt about that but then again that's
selfish too so what's the answer that I
could give that doesn't isn't selfish
right even the person who is like I've
done a tremendous amount of non-profit
work and I can find the selfishness in
that too and there's an incredible
personal reward in
in the in being of service so I I don't
know I don't even know if the word
selfish
I don't know if I even believe in it
particularly I feel like that's just a
word that some adult created to control
their children
the levels of selfishness seem to be a
good way to gauge
where you are in your own personal
development or your selfishness of like
I want this now and I don't want you to
have it that level of selfishness just
means that you're in a tremendous amount
of misery compared to somebody whose
level of selfishness is to be of service
to people
and I'm sure
the mentality of being of service to
people is a form of misery compared to
another level of selfishness so I don't
buy into selfishness but I think what
you're pointing to outside of that
which is kind of a justification of
narcissism through spirituality is what
I would call that this um idea that
I'm going to make myself special or big
or
I'm gonna get all of my
ID needs met through
the activities I'm doing the world
whether it be business or art or
whatever
and I'm going to justify it with a whole
bunch of spiritual talk
and you know things like I'm gonna
listen to My Truth etc etc
um I think that's a really it's a real
risk it's not to
pretend it's not there it's not it's not
even like the risk is that I need to see
if it's there the risk is that I need to
find the more and more subtle versions
of that in play in myself
and the and the lucky part is that that
it's misery so
I can find those parts pretty easily if
I'm just paying attention to where I'm
not aligned where I'm in friction with
myself and so that's that's the work
that's the work
but from an outside point of view
there's really nothing I can say that
somebody who's not being assertive with
their own needs or is going to hear
that's going to make me sound anything
but selfish how much concern do you have
that you know these these tools getting
out there and mass thousands tens of
thousands hundreds of thousands of
people using
like taking these courses in a
decentralized way
and bringing this into their lives with
all of their Shadows what concern do you
have that this could
you know become weaponized in mass in
ways that you don't expect an unintended
ways oh I hate I hate this feeling
um
and now I'm gonna love this feeling
um it's inevitable
you know I'm gonna say something that's
a little risky here but you know
there's an atrocity that occurs and it
is through that atrocity that 10 other
atrocities are prevented
and it's through the prevention of those
atrocities that the next atrocity occurs
I don't see a way around
good being corrupted into bad and bad
creating the next good it seems to be
just the way of things so
it breaks my heart and that I know to
some degree that this stuff has already
been weaponized I know that on a small
scale someone's going to bring the view
and they're going to say something like
you're not asking how what questions to
somebody to their wife and their wife's
gonna be like up you and then
like the view is going to be seen I
didn't Wonder enough right yeah you're
not in Wonder enough yeah that
exactly and then and then it's just
going to become a new morality and then
somebody's going to feel oppressed by
the morality and then they're going to
be like screw view that thing is just
blah blah blah and and then they're
gonna
yeah there's just that I don't know any
way for that to be prevented
and it breaks my heart and
it's been happening for I mean
I mean look what people have done with
the words of Christ or the words of
Buddha or
and they oppress themselves and others
with them all the time it's going to
happen here it's it I mean it happens
with the internet at anything anything
of significance gets used to oppress
people eventually you know even love
gets used to oppress people or the idea
of Love yeah exactly so wrapping this
episode up what is your vision of a
future like five years from now where
view conversations are a thing that
people just have all the time and it's
become
like let's say it's it's successful and
it becomes just part of the social
lexicon what does that world look like
to you it's all happening and like I'm
I'm someone blissfully unaware I think
it's my version of like the best case
scenario
the the best case scenario is one in
which
and in a weird way this is already
happening where the repercussions of the
work are far beyond my capacity to see
them and they have extended into other
people's work and
and now there's new and better tools out
there that have built on these tools and
on a personal note it would be nice to
be
continuing to be excited about the
business and continuing to be trying new
projects and funneling whatever
resources we create into bigger
explorations of self-discovery in the
world and
and I've done it all inside of a balance
where my children still feel loved and
cared for and and that they know deeply
that they're the priority over the work
that would be my vision
well thank you very much Joe a pleasure
you got me crying man thanks mission
accomplished
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
thank you